Subaru Natsuki is a NEET who does nothing but play games. One night, after visiting a convenience store, he is suddenly summoned to another world. With no sign of who summoned him, he soon befriends a silver-haired half-elf girl who introduces herself as Satella, and her companion Puck. Satella mentions that her insignia was stolen by a thief named Felt. When he and "Satella" are mysteriously killed, Subaru awakens and discovers that he has acquired an ability which he names "Return by Death," enabling him to reverse time by dying. He greets "Satella" again, only for her to be offended at being addressed by the name "Satella," which in fact refers to the "Witch of Envy," and is considered a taboo. With the help of Reinhard (a knight) in another timeline, Subaru saves "Satella's" life from the assassin Elsa; she reveals that her real name is Emilia, and as a token of gratitude, Felt returns the insignia to her.

While recovering at the margrave Roswaal's mansion, the mage Beatrice drains Subaru's mana. After waking up, he meets the twin maids Ram and Rem, as well as Roswaal, who hires him as a butler at Subaru's request. Roswaal reveals that Emilia needed the insignia to qualify as a candidate in the upcoming royal election. After mysteriously dying again, Subaru decides to investigate the circumstances leading to his death, and tries to recreate these events. Following a series of traumatic deaths and revivals, he learns that a curse had been placed on him, then deduces it came from a village he had visited earlier, while also resolving Rem's intense hatred for witches. Eventually, the village is threatened by creatures known as mabeasts, demonic beasts that are rumored to have been created by a witch to wipe out humanity, so Subaru, Rem and Ram have to rescue the villagers.

Later, Emilia is summoned to the capital by two members of the Crusch's Camp, Wilhelm and Felix who is also a part of the Royal Guard for the start of the royal selection. There, Subaru and company meet the other royal candidates: Priscilla, Crusch, Anastasia and Felt; and their knights, Aldebaran, Julius, and Reinhard. Felt initially announces that she will not participate in the election, and Subaru declares himself to be Emilia's knight. Following a public fight with Julius which leaves Subaru badly injured, he gets into a huge argument with Emilia, and she decides to cut ties with Subaru, leaving him behind.

After recovering, Subaru decides to train under Wilhelm, while Felix advises him to make up with Emilia. Rem then warns Subaru that something is occurring at the mansion, and against Crusch and Felix's warning, Subaru decides to return to the mansion. There, he discovers many dead bodies, including that of Rem, much to his horror. After dying and respawning, he is ambushed by a wicked group known as the Witch's Cult and meets the insane leader, Petelgeuse, who then tortures Subaru and kills Rem using an ability called the "Unseen Hand". Having later been killed by a monstrous Puck, Subaru respawns and curses Petelgeuse.

Knowing that the mansion and village will be attacked, Subaru seeks help from the other royal candidates, but they all decline. While gathering an evacuation, he encounters a legendary beast called the White Whale. Rem sacrifices herself to allow Subaru to escape. After returning to the mansion, Subaru encounters Ram and Emilia, who have no recollection of Rem. Disturbed by the situation, Subaru reveals his "Return by Death" ability to Emilia, only for her to die afterward. Subaru shocked by what just happened asks Beatrice to kill him, she declines and sends him to a place where she can't see him. Puck, enraged, transforms and kills Petelgeuse and his cult, then freezes Subaru to death as punishment for Emilia's death. After respawning, Subaru, having fallen into utter despair, has a serious conversation with Rem, asking her to run away with him. Rem, however, strongly encourages Subaru not to give up and confesses her love for him, already knowing that his heart is for Emilia. With newfound resolve, Subaru then decides that he will start again from zero.

Subaru and Rem later battle against the White Whale, after successfully striking an alliance with Crusch and Anastasia's camps. Following a long and hard-fought battle, Wilhelm ultimately kills the White Whale, thus avenging the death of his wife. Eventually, with the help of his new allies, Subaru is finally able to defeat Petelgeuse and his cult, saving the lives of Emilia and the villagers. Having reconciled with Emilia, Subaru confesses his love for her, leading Emilia to tearfully thank Subaru for saving her. However, when Subaru questions his confession regarding Rem, Emilia gave no recollection of Rem for the second time, much to Subaru's shock. 
